making very clear they're not briefing
I'm joined today by Baroness Dino
Harding the chief and the executive
chair of NHS tests and trace before we
start I want to recognize the sad loss
of Dame Vera Lynn she United us in the
worst crisis that this country faced and
ever since she's inspired us all with
the words that she will always be
associated with we will meet again and
we send our condolences to her family
and we will all remember her warmly the
first thing I want to do is take you
through the latest data and then talk
about progress with NHS tests and trace
and vaccines if we go to the first slide
please the first slide shows that
yesterday there were a hundred and
thirty six thousand five hundred and
sixteen tests taking the total to over
seven and a quarter million tests in
total and that there were 1218 positive
test results if we go to the next slide
this slide shows the estimated average
number of people who had at kovat 19 in
England this is according to the ons
survey and as you can see the number has
been coming down over time and this same
survey implies around four and a half
thousand new cases per day next slide
please
data from hospitals also shows that
broad downward direction there are four
hundred and ninety admissions we've
covered 19 on the 15th of June and as we
can see the number of people on
mechanical ventilator beds is now 360
next slide please
the number of people in hospital
continues to come down in almost every
region you can see a very small uptick
in the East of England but as you can
see from the charts there's some
movement in the in the variation and the
in each of the lines and the overall
movement continues to be down and
overall down to five thousand one
hundred and ninety three from five
thousand eight hundred and sixty three
this time last week and the final slide
of this group please when it comes to
the number of people who've sadly died
with gorona virus yesterday the number
of deaths reported was a hundred and
thirty five bringing the total to forty
two thousand two hundred and eighty
eight and again we can see the downward
trajectory thankfully off that number
and the the number 135 is lower than
this time last week but there is still
some way to go and there's one
additional report that's worth that's
worth looking at which is that public
health England today and published their
weekly surveillance report which shows
that last week for the first week since
mid-march the number of people who died
in this country in total from
coronavirus and anything else was no
higher than is normal at this time of
year so that demonstrates that the
number of deaths is coming right down
but the battle against this virus is not
over and it's a battle on many fronts
and there's two areas I want to update
you on today and the first is vaccines
before I talk about corona vaccines I
just want to mention a very important
reminder about other routine vaccines
that are there to protect you throughout
the crisis we've tried to keep the
vaccination programs for children going
and that has been largely successful but
if you or your child is invited for a
vaccination like MMR then please make
sure you attend it's very important that
we don't fall behind on the vaccinations
for other diseases because of this
crisis during the pandemic
we've put
the stringent measures in place to
protect people who are getting
vaccinations and in the long run the
best way to defeat this virus is of
course the discovery of a vaccine and
since the start we've been supporting
the most promising projects as of this
week the Imperial vaccine is now in the
first phase of human clinical trials and
AstraZeneca has struck a deal for the
manufacture of the oxford vaccine
they're starting manufacturing now even
ahead of approval so we can build up a
stockpile and be ready
should it be clinically approved just
like with dexamethasone the treatment
which we stockpiled before we have proof
that it was clinically effective so we
are starting the manufacture of the
oxford vaccine now so that it'll be
ready should the science come off today
we have also published the way in which
we propose to prioritize people for
access to a vaccine as soon as one comes
available just as we did for testing
we'll be guided by the clinical science
prioritizing those in most need I'm very
grateful to the Joint Committee on
vaccination and immunization which has
published its interim advice today they
recommend priority vaccinations for two
groups frontline health and social care
workers and those at increased risk of
serious disease and death from
coronavirus including for example adults
over the age of 50 and those with heart
and kidney disease as we learn more
about the virus will continue to take
into account which groups may be
particularly vulnerable including for
example those from ethnic minority
backgrounds so we can protect the most
at-risk first
should a vaccine become available and
get this country back on a feed as soon
as we possibly can our approach to
vaccines is to throw everything at it as
fast as we can and
giris li to test and make sure that
they're safe before deployment this is
our approach across the board in fact
including on test and trace 2 and that's
the second area that I want to focus on
today
Baroness Harding will talk you through
the latest figures from our NHS test and
trace program shortly today's show data
show a system that is working well and
constantly improving and remember that
each one of the thousands of people who
are now isolating because of the NHS
test and traced program and all the work
of those involved is someone who would
have been innocently going about their
daily lives not knowing that they were a
risk to their community and as you may
remember our plan is to complement this
human contact tracing with a contact
tracing app like other governments
around the world we've been working hard
on this and I want to be upfront and
open about the challenges that we and
other countries are facing over the past
few weeks we have rigorously tested our
prototype app in the Isle of Wight and
in field trials and I want to thank
everyone who's been involved and all the
Islanders of the Isle of Wight the
council who've been brilliant the local
NHS and Bob Seeley the MP who has played
a real leadership role thank you because
of this testing we discovered a
technical barrier that every other
country building their own app is also
now hitting we found that our app works
well on Android devices but Apple
software prevents iPhones being used
effectively for contact tracing unless
you're using Apple's own technology
after we started our work on our app
Google and Apple then started working on
their own product and as soon as they
did this we began working on both we
kept our options open in the same way
that we do with other areas and I
personally feel in this fight more than
any other that we must leave no stone
unturned so I asked Dido and the NHS X
team to make sure that they worked on
both products of course we've been
testing Google and apples
- and as we did this we found that it
does not estimate distance well enough
measuring distance of course is mission
critical to any contact tracing app so
as it stands our app won't work because
Apple won't change their system but it
can measure distance and their app can't
measure distance well enough to a
standard that we are satisfied with
throughout this for me
what matters is what works because what
works will save lives and I will work
with anyone public or private sector
here or overseas to gain an any inch of
ground against this disease so we've
agreed to join forces with Google and
Apple to bring the best bits of both
systems together we'll share our
algorithm and the work that we've done
on distance calculation and combine that
with their work to deliver a new
solution I've always been optimistic
about the contribution that technology
can make in this battle against
coronavirus and coming together in this
way will bring together some of the best
minds to find a solution to this global
challenge and help to save lives in the
meantime the NHS tests and tray system
based on good old-fashioned human
contact tracing is working well
identifying local outbreaks and helping
to control this virus and I want to ask
you all once more if you get a call or
message from NHS tests and trace the
most important thing is please do your
bit to protect your community to protect
your loved ones and to protect the NHS
and follow those instructions I'd now
like to hand over to Baroness Harding to
take us through the tests and tracing
stats Thank You Secretary of State could
I have the slide please as the figures
show in the second week of the program
five thousand nine hundred and forty
nine people who had tested positive for
coronavirus had their details
transferred to the contact tracing
system of those people four thousand
three hundred and sixty-six
that 73% of the total were reached and
asked to provide details of their recent
close contacts that's a small increase
from 72% in the first week of operation
and similar to what we saw last week
it's very encouraging that 78% gave us
this information within 24 hours of
being asked to do so we really
appreciate and recognize everyone's
swift response using that information as
you can see on the next slide we were
able to identify forty four thousand
eight hundred and ninety five people who
had been in close contact with someone
who tested positive of those forty
thousand six hundred and ninety people
were advised to self isolate which is
ninety one percent of all the contacts
identified this is very similar to what
we saw in the first week of operation
and again this was done within good time
these statistics are encouraging they
demonstrate that we're making progress
against a good starting point we
outlined last week last time I spoke to
you I made a commitment that NHS tests
and trace would keep learning improving
and refining to become a high quality
service that all of us can depend on in
partnership with public health England
and local government we are right now
protecting local communities from
outbreaks I'd also like to outline some
of the steps we've taken that set us on
that journey of continuous improvement
firstly we've changed the process of
requesting tests we've taken out the
need to copy a 16 digit code between
websites when a tested booked to make it
easier for us for all of us
secondly we're changing how our labs
operate were changing shift patterns so
that some labs are working overnight and
some are working weekends to match when
samples arrive for testing and thirdly
we've connected people's test results to
their GP records and these improvements
will continue we will continue to work
work towards an app which forms part of
the end-to-end service of NHS tests and
trace and enables people to engage with
every aspect of the service and I'd like
to reiterate everything that the
secretary
it has just said in thanking the people
who have been involved in developing and
trialing the app to date and in
particular the people of the Isle of
Wight we are truly grateful for your
support finally I'd like to take a step
back from some of our operational
changes and show you what NHS test and
trace should mean to you if you ever
need to use it and I can't do this any
better than by reading the words of one
of our brilliant clinical contact
tracers who shared their experience of
contacting a lady who had tested
positive for corona virus and was
nervous about what it meant for her and
her family in their words she needed to
hear a professional calm and caring
voice who was there to listen advise and
support she needed to be reassured and
hear that she was doing a great job
caring for her daughter and after we had
finished she told me that I'd made her
burden feel lighter and that she wished
we could speak every day I've said
before that NHS tests and trace is a
service for the public that works best
as a partnership with the public and to
me the work of our contact traces shows
us what a true partnership looks like I
want people to know that NHS tests and
trace will be there for them when they
need it and I want to reiterate what I
said last week if you have symptoms a
fever a new continuous cough or a loss
or change in your sense of smell or
taste then testing is available you can
and must book yourself a test if one of
your children has a fever stay at home
and order a test if NHS testing trace
gets in touch with you to say you've
tested positive you should go online or
call us on one one nine if you don't
have the Internet
and provide us with accurate up-to-date
information about your recent close
contact and if you're one of those
contacts it's vitally important that you
do what tens of thousands of others are
already are already doing and self
isolate because in doing so you will be
taking the virus out of circulation
you'll be protecting your friends your
family and the wider community from
infection thank you
thank you very much Baroness Harding and
will now go to questions from the public
and then to questions from the media
thereafter so the first question is from
Luke in Cardiff by video hello good
evening
every year thousands of students from
different areas of the country come
together in one place the star the
university year how is the government
supporting universities and local
councils to ensure that the influx of
students in one town or city doesn't
result in a local outbreak of the virus
thank you well thank you Luke that is a
great question and of course the work is
ongoing now led by the Department for
Education to make sure that if we can do
as much as we can to ensure a safe
restart of universities in the same way
that we're working towards the safe
restart of schools in the autumn and
that's incredibly important work at both
in terms of what happens inside the
institution but also exactly as you say
when people go to university they they
usually travel and places like Cardiff
which of course has a brilliant
University in fact to the there are
there are many students who go there
that is it's a really important point
it's something that the DfE is working
very hard on thanks very much for your
question Luke and the next question is
from Stuart in Birmingham and Stuart
asks as a large number of people have
been working from home during the
lockdown period is the government
planning to pass laws that will make it
easier for employees who wish to
continue working from home to do so as
lockdown as eased well the number one
thing I'd say Stuart is that working
from home is absolutely recommended
wherever it's possible of course there
are some industries in which is just not
possible some jobs but wherever it's
possible we recommend working from home
I think one of the big things that
people have learnt from this crisis is
the opportunity of working from home and
how it can be effective and thank
goodness the technology is now readily
available to make that so so it's it's
certainly something that I think will
will stay with us a long time after the
crisis those those zoom calls or other
other other technologies are available
and we will I'm very happy to talk to
the business department to ask whether
there's laws that need to change given
that big change in how people are using
technology I think we should take that
away and look at it but but the best
thing is in the first instance of course
people can work from home where people
can work from home they should do so and
businesses employers should facilitate
that thanks very much Stewart great
question and the next question is from
Hugh pin of the BBC Hugh thank you very
much you had said that the smartphone
app would play a central role in testing
and tracing it's now been delayed when
do you think the app will be involved in
identifying and tracing contacts well
thanks you we we are working on it is
the answer we're not going to put a date
on it I'm afraid because I'm absolutely
determined that whilst this technology
can help
it's got to be working effectively and
you know the central point of test and
trace is actually the fact that when you
are identified as at-risk you then
isolate and asking people to isolate for
two weeks is a big thing and so I would
not recommend an app unless I'm
confident in it I've explained I hope
why the the best parts of the two
systems that we've been working on can
be brought together but I am confident
that we will get there we will put that
cherry on
Dido's cake a quick follow-up on another
subject if I may sure more than two
million people are shielding and there
been reports in the last day or two
about the scheme coming to an end at the
end of July based it seems on briefings
to charities can you end the uncertainty
and give people in that
situation that a proper indication of
what he's going to have well who I know
how sensitive this is to the 2.2 million
people who are shielding and their and
their families and we've asked them to
do something to which is really really
big over the last three months which is
to stay at home almost entirely until
recently we we we and we put forward the
clinical advice that it's okay to go out
very carefully to exercise we will be
bringing forward the next steps very
very soon but I don't want to go into
any more detail because I want that to
be done properly and I want it to be
done with the with the support of the
charities who do so much to support
those 2.2 million people and so there
will be a formal government publication
and we will write to every single member
of that group and to make sure that they
know what it means for them in the
meantime the advice remains to keep
shielding and the current program and
the end date of the program is of course
the end of this month but before then
everybody will get an individualized a
letter from the NHS to explain what they
need to do next
thanks very much Hugh the next question
is from Tom Clark of ITV Tom hello thank
you and first a question for Baroness
holding if I may about tests and trace
we just heard there from the sector of
state about four and a half thousand
people a week or estimated a day are
estimated to be getting coronavirus in
the community a rough calculation
suggests about 10,000 symptomatic people
a week could be coming it could be out
there in the population yeah you're
testing just a fraction of that are
actually getting through to tests and
trace if you're missing so many people
who are symptomatic likova they're
getting tested how can we be sure that
tests and trays can stay on top of
outbreaks don't it so thank you Tom
there are two things that we need to do
and one of one of those things is for
all of us so we are missing some people
who have symptom
who are not getting tested and so all of
us have got to learn this new behavior
that if we have a temperature if we have
a continued continuous cough or we lose
our sense of taste or smell we the first
thing we should do is stay at home and
the second thing is we should order a
test so that's why you've heard me say
this from this podium this weekend last
week there's something for all of us to
do if one of our children and you know
young children get temperatures all the
time and you know it's a new behavior if
one of your children has a fever
overnight you stay at home with the
family look after them an order a test
and the second thing we have to do is
get better at hunting out the virus
seventy percent or so of people who have
the virus won't show any symptoms all
will have such mild symptoms they might
not spot it and that's why we're doing
targeted testing for people in high
contact professions such as health and
social care but also other roles we're
looking to expand that so there's more
work for NHS tests and traits to do so
perversely I'm one of the very few
people working in government that wants
to see the number of people testing
positive go up each day because it means
that we will have a more targeted and
efficient testing system but obviously
we also want fewer people to get the
virus so I'm not pretending that it is
perfect of course it isn't we all have
work to do to keep honing it in
improving it
thanks very much Tom the system isn't
perfect we've just heard that from
Baroness Harding and we have those
continuing to ease lockdown measures
could that explain why we are seeing in
that PhD data you mentioned earlier an
increase in outbreaks in schools in
hospitals in other settings compared to
during the lockdown period how do you
explain that well the good thing is that
we're seeing a reduction in the number
of people dying from corona virus and
indeed a reduction in the number of
people dying overall so that there are
now actually very just slightly fewer
people dying in the last week's data
than in a normal that June week in a
more year it's it's it's it's
statistically equivalent those two data
points and we are doing much more to to
be able to trace these individual
outbreaks for instance there's an
outbreak right now in parts of Leicester
that we're working very hard to to track
down and we're putting in a mobile
testing unit and we're working hard on
that there's another in Kirklees in in
Yorkshire again we've sent in mobile
testing units we're working with in both
cases the local council and in both
cases the local director of Public
Health is doing a magnificent job
working with the NHS test and trace
scheme and the joint biosecurity Centre
as our sort of our eyes and ears so
there is there are these local outbreaks
and we've seen them all the way through
and and we now have the system in place
to be able to spot them as best we can
and then take that local action and it's
and it's natural that as you lift the as
the lockdown lift slightly we've always
said the next move is to more localised
action in order to tackle outbreaks
where we find them Dido did you want to
add anything on that no I would just say
that no we have a very large scale test
and tracing surface up and running now
if you look at the scale of our national
service terms of tests conducted per
hundred thousand of population terms of
contact tracers per 100,000 population
it stands comparison with anyone in the
world so we have a service that is fit
for purpose for as we stand now and it
will get better and better with each
passing week thanks Tom the next
questions from Andy Bell from Channel
five News Andy thank you very much a
question for both of you the app has
been described as the cherry on the cake
as there seem to be more and more
problems developing with it it's much
more than that isn't it if we're ever
going to go back to normal because it's
all very well for people to have contact
tracing they can remember the people
that they knew that they were in touch
with it but if we're going to get back
to normal and people are standing in bus
or getting on trains they're not going
to know who those people are so an app
is absolutely vital isn't it to get back
to any kind of normality well the the
things vital to get back to the sort of
new normality you described is to get
the number of infections right down and
to have the treatments and the vaccine
available and to have a world-class test
and tray system as a whole and actually
one of the things that we've learnt from
the Isle of Wight is the importance of
the human in the contact tracing and
that the and that the app is an
important addition exactly as you
described for instance you know
somebody's sitting on the bus that you
wouldn't know and therefore be able to
pass the contacts on but it is but the
core is the human contact tracing
element of it and so and so that's yeah
but we still want the app to work that's
why we backed both horses and we'll keep
working with all the technologists and
to get one that that does I just add
that this is a global challenge that
what we've done in really rigorously
testing both our own Kovac 19 app and
the Google Apple version is demonstrate
that none of them are working
sufficiently well enough to actually be
reliable to determine whether any of us
should a self isolate firt for two weeks
that's true across the world and yet a
number of countries including ourselves
have got scale and effective tests and
trace services I think clearly having an
app that can help identify people you
don't know would be a hugely helpful
addition to those of us that that
commute but there are other things we
can all do good hand hygiene being
really aware of social distancing
wearing a face mask on public transport
all of those things are well within our
abilities now and I do think what we are
building is fundamentally a human local
community service that will be digitally
assisted the technology on its own isn't
gonna solve this it's all of us in the
way that we behave that will follow
yes of course but if you don't have a
date and you can't give us a date for
when this app will be ready and there's
been discussion even today of it being
autumns
winter before an app is up and running
in the way that it needs to be that
basically means can we get back to
normal life in terms of people getting
on commuter trains etc before autumn
straight winter that's an awful long way
away
well I I'd simply say Andy that the core
of the NHS test and trace program is to
ask people who are high-risk to isolate
and as you've seen in the statistics
that Dido's just shown that calc now
covers 87,000 people and and so there's
a very significant operation in place of
course it can be enhanced both the human
side will continue to improve as we've
always said and ABing the technology but
I wouldn't I absolutely don't put the
direct link that you do between between
the two but we'll get the app and run it
up and running
as soon as we can but I will not
recommend people to download the app
until I'm confident that that's the
right thing to do because in down
because I'd be asking people to download
the app and then to self isolate if it
tells you to and that is a that is a big
thing to ask of people and so you'll
understand why you know rather than just
putting this out even though there are
these problems with it I'd far rather
not I'd far rather get it right thanks
very much Andy next question is from
Heather Stewart of the Guardian Heather
how are you I'm very well and instead of
being reports of problems with the app
for weeks now with the NHS version
Australia announced on the 6th of May
that it was switching to a Google Apple
approach because it realized that it
wasn't working developing a bespoke app
has it taken us too long to realize that
this is not something that we can do
ourselves is that because we were too
fixated on being world be - no actually
the quite the contrary have a you know
I'm from Newmarket we backed both horses
so we took the decision in May to start
building the Google Apple version as
well and then because we'd been able
we'd built both we could then test both
and actually the best way to get new
technology going is to it is to test
different
approaches and this often happens as a
standard approach in commercial world
for instance and far better to go with
both versions and we've now got problems
with both versions and but there's parts
of each that can come together to put to
build something that's that's stronger
than either version there is the reality
is if we hadn't backed both horses we
wouldn't have a way forward
precisely because we've developed our
own and we've developed some really
sophisticated distance calculations we
think that we can enhance the Google
Apple platform such that it will work if
we hadn't but act both we wouldn't be
able to do that thanks Heather
the next question is from Matt Dayton at
the Sun Matt thank you this week you've
seen more evidence of how disabled
children their families and adults with
learning difficulties have been left
behind and let down in in knocked down
this is where you could survey by the
disabled children sponsorship about
three-quarters of disabled children have
had all of that support withdrawn such
as respite care and equipment and this
leaves also a huge strain on their
families you know their siblings that
their parents and also have learning
difficulties many of whom live in
supported living situations like my
sister Beth actually yourself they want
much clearer guidance to help them
adjust the new normal and they also want
to know when they'll be able to see
family again
so what measures can the government take
going forward to ensure that some people
with disabilities are no longer
forgotten during this pandemic well Matt
I think that an incredibly important
question and I I've seen the report and
I saw the report in the Sun on this
earlier this week it's an incredibly
important question I think the first
thing to say is that even whilst almost
all children weren't going to school
during the lockdown
we kept 80 percent of schools open for
those with with special needs we have
put more supporting from central
government including for instance the
ten million
family fund trust but it's vital that
that local authority support that you
refer to is also there and getting that
into place as the services recover right
across the board ISM is incredibly
important one thing that might help with
this is maybe following Northern
Ireland's need as we hear today it's
schools are going to be reducing social
distance sensor to 1 meter why is it so
different here why can't schools here
reduce the social distancing to 1 meter
when they reopen in September well we're
working on what is needed to get schools
open in September to get all schools
open in September and the there is a
review as you know Matt into the the
current two meter rule but the two meter
rule is itself a social distancing
measure so removing it has an impact in
terms of the transmission of the disease
so we have to make sure in that review
that we have there the the space within
the and the viruses under control enough
to be able to make the change and to
replace the 2 meter rule if that's the
conclusion of the review with something
that then makes it easier to do to do
things like for instance have people
together at school so I get the
interaction between the 2 meter rule and
getting people back to school we we're
working very hard now the DfE is leading
it on the work that's needed in order to
have all pupils back in school as
everybody wants to see from the start of
September you didn't so when we might be
able to actually visit family and stay
overnight you know Father's Day on
Sunday yeah you can any hope of when we
might being a parent or going to stay
overnight that is another one of the of
the social distancing measures that is
that we're looking at of course where
we're looking at it it's an important
consideration not least because I want
people to be able also to have a holiday
if at all possible at this summer and
the rules currently prevent people from
staying elsewhere overnight unless they
have an exceptional circumstances so and
I will so it is that is something that
we're looking at and we'll work on it
and I'll make sure that you know about
the outcome of that just as soon as we
possibly can
thanks Matt final question is from Jerry
Scott from the Yorkshire Post Jerry yeah
I'd like to ask how local leaders are
supposed to be ready for these local
lockdowns we've heard we've got
directors of public health saying that
they don't know what the term means
we've got mayors and council leaders
saying that they don't have the powers
to enact them on a scale larger than one
building and the joint biosecurity
Center won't be fully operational until
later in the summer so what happens in
the meantime or are you moving away for
the term as you've just spoken about the
outbreak in Yorkshire and said you've
put mobile testing it's where local law
times their number on their table oh yes
the the system is already up and running
in fact I chaired a meeting this morning
of our local action committee which is
the formal process through which we make
these decisions and working with local
leaders for instance in Kirklees as you
mention and the local Director of Public
Health and the council are heavily
involved in the response there are
actions and powers that people have at a
local level in local councils and then
there's powers that I have a secretary
of state from the coronavirus act and we
have a process so that if if on the
ground they need powers that I have they
can put that request up and we can look
at that and similarly if we spot a
problem then we can go down to the
council and ask what they're what what
they're doing about it so that process
is in place and it's up and running and
working and dido were sat around a table
for an hour this morning working on
exactly that including discussing at
Kirklees I do I would add that it is a
good York Sherman Tom Reardon the chief
executive lead City Council that is
leading this work for the secretary
state and I and making sure the
government has allocated an additional
300 million pounds to uppity local
authorities to build and enhance their
local action plans and what we're seeing
is that communities are doing this now
we speak in a number of places across
the country where we see experts from
the public health England Health
Protection teams working alongside
directors of public health in local
authorities we from NHS test and trace
are able to allocate out mobile testing
units when they need it to use our
contact tracing capacity to do extra
contact tracing and then to work with
employers and individuals so that they
can take the necessary social distance
seeing deep-cleaning health protection
measures so there is a lot of work for
everyone to do as we all get used to
living with with kovat but actually I
think that the I really firmly believe
that the way to do this is through local
communities working together and that's
what Tom and his team are doing thanks
very much indeed yes of course thank you
so that doesn't change the fact that
they're mayors and cats the leaders and
directs of Public Health locally across
the country are saying they don't
actually understand what what this is
and they don't feel they have the powers
even if you say they do so do you feel
like you've communicated that well
enough to them and will you issue
further guidance well the local
directors of public health who have the
statutory responsibility locally in this
area are the ones who we directly engage
with of course where there is a local
outbreak the whole council including the
council leader at the council chief
executive but will will will inevitably
get involved if it's significant but I
do think that we've led by Tommy Auden
you know who himself is a chief
executive of a Yorkshire council in
Leeds the we we're getting better and
better engagement with each local area
and as I said you can see it on the
ground from the example in Kirklees
right now but the but of course that can
you know the there's more and more
councils that we need to engage but
thankfully in most areas this isn't
necessary what where it's necessary is
where the outbreaks are and thankfully
at the moment and they are they are they
are relatively few but of course we work
intensively whenever we see one thanks
very much indeed
the that brings to the end our daily
coronavirus briefing thank you
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News